Q1 What is the role of Startup class?

Ans  Startup class is responsible for configuration related things as below.

It configures the services which are required by the app.
It defines the app's request handling pipeline as a series of middleware components.
But You can emit this class and Program.cs file contains all startup code.



Q2 Describe the Dependency Injection.

Dependency Injection is a Design Pattern that's used as a technique to achieve 
the Inversion of Control (IoC) between the classes and their dependencies.
ASP.NET Core comes with a built-in Dependency Injection framework that makes 
configured services available throughout the application.
 You can configure the services inside the ConfigureServices method as below.

services.AddScoped();


Q3  Explain the request pipeline or middleware pipeline in ASP.NET Core.

A request pipeline or middleware pipeline consists of a sequence of request delegates 
which are called one after another to perform operations before and after the next delegate.



Q4 Explain the difference between app.Run and app.Use in ASP.NET Core.


app.Use method adds a middleware delegate to the application's request pipeline. 
When you want to pass the context to the next middleware then prefer app.Use method.
app.Run method adds a terminal middleware delegate to the application's request pipeline.
 When you want to terminate the pipeline then prefer to use the app.Run method.

Q5 Describe the Service Lifetimes.

When Services are registered, there is a lifetime for every service. 
ASP.NET Core provides the following lifetimes.

Transient - Services with transient lifetime are created each time they are requested from service container.
 So it's best suited for stateless, light weight services.
Scoped - Services with scoped lifetime are created once per connection or client request. 
When using scoped service in middleware then inject the service via invoke or invokeAsync method.
 You should not inject the service via constructor injection as it treats the service behavior like Singleton.
Singleton - Service with singleton lifetime is created once when first time the service is requested.
 For subsequent requests same instance is served by service container.

Q6  Explain the Middleware in ASP.NET Core.

The Request handling pipeline is a sequence of middleware components where each component performs
 the operation on request and either call the next middleware component 
or terminate the request. When a middleware component terminates the request, 
it's called Terminal Middleware as It prevents next middleware from processing the request.
 You can add a middleware component to the pipeline by calling .Use... extension method as below.

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();
    app.UseRouting();


Q7 What is Request delegate?

Request delegates handle each HTTP request and are used to build request pipeline.
 It can configured using Run, Map and Use extension methods. 
An request delegate can be a in-line as an anonymous method (called in-line middleware) or a reusable class. 
These classes or in-line methods are called middleware components.

 Q8 What is Host in ASP.NET Core?

Host encapsulates all the resources for the app. On startup, ASP.NET Core application creates the host. 
The Resources which are encapsulated by the host include:

HTTP Server implementation
Dependency Injection
Configuration
Logging
Middleware components


Q9 What are the extension methods in C#?

Imagine you're playing a video game with a character named "String." 
This character has some built-in abilities, like jumping and running.
 But what if you want to give String some new superpowers without changing its original code?
That's where extension methods come in! They're like magical amulets 
that you can create to give String (or any other class) new abilities without altering its core structure.

Q10  Life Scope?

AddSingleton()
AddSingleton() creates a single instance of the service when it is first requested and reuses
that same instance in all the places where that service is needed.

AddScoped()
In a scoped service, with every HTTP request, we get a new instance. However, within the same HTTP request, 
if the service is required in multiple places, like in the view and in the controller,
 then the same instance is provided for the entire scope of that HTTP request. 
But every new HTTP request will get a new instance of the service.

AddTransient()
With a transient service, a new instance is provided every time a service instance is requested whether
 it is in the scope of the same HTTP request or across different HTTP requests.

Q11 LINQ Extension Methods:-
First(),FirstOrDefault(),Single(),SingleOrDefault(),ToList(),Count(),Min(),Max(),Last(),LastOrDefault(),Average()


Q12 IEnumerable:-
	IEnumerable exists in the System.Collections namespace.
	IEnumerable is suitable for querying data from in-memory collections like List, Array and so on.
	While querying data from the database, IEnumerable executes "select query" on the server-side, 
	loads data in-memory on the client-side and then filters the data.
	IEnumerable is beneficial for LINQ to Object and LINQ to XML queries.

Q13 IQuerable:-
	IQueryable exists in the System.Linq Namespace.
	IQueryable is suitable for querying data from out-memory (like remote database, service) collections.
	While querying data from a database, IQueryable executes a "select query" on server-side with all filters.
	IQueryable is beneficial for LINQ to SQL queries.

Q14 1.DI is a design methodology where in rather than caller creating the instance 
		its injected by some framework or some other mechanism.
	2. Inversion of control is a principle where we say focus on your work and other tasks delegate to someone else.
      3.DI helps to Implement decoupled architecture where you change at one place and changes are reflected at many places.
      4. Scoped, Transient and singleton define the life time of the dependancy injected object.


Q15 Kestrel is a lightweight, cross-platform, and open-source web server for
 ASP.NET Core that runs on Linux, Windows, and Mac. 
	It is designed to be fast and scalable, 
	and it is the preferred web server for all new ASP.NET applications.

	IIS (Internet Information Services), on the other hand, 
is a web server that is developed and maintained only by Microsoft.
 	It is a Windows-specific web server that is not cross-platform.

	One of the main differences between Kestrel and IIS is 
that Kestrel is a cross-platform server that can run on Linux, Windows, and Mac, 
      whereas IIS is Windows-specific. 
	Another essential difference between the two is that Kestrel is fully open-source,
      whereas IIS is closed-source and developed and maintained only by Microsoft.

Q16 What is the purpose of middleware in ASP.NET Core?
	Middleware is a powerful tool in .NET Core that allows you to modify incoming requests and outgoing responses.
 	It can be used to perform a wide range of tasks such as authentication, logging, compression, and caching.

	In addition to the built-in middleware components that are available in .
      NET Core (Please check this link for all built-in middleware), 
	you can also create your own custom middleware components. 
	Creating custom middleware allows you to add functionality to your application that is specific to your needs.

Q17 There are 3 types of cache available

	In-Memory Cache: The data are cached in the server's memory.
	Persistent in-process Cache: The data are cached in some file or database.
	Distributed Cache: The data are cached in a shared cache and multiple processes. Example: Redis cache

Q18 Caching is the technique of storing the data which are frequently used. 
    Those data can be served faster for any future or subsequent requests by
    eliminating unnecessary requests to external data sources.
 



























